docs/modules/FromEither.ts.md, before:

---
title: FromEither.ts
nav_order: 34
parent: Modules
---

## FromEither overview

The `FromEither` type class represents those data types which support errors.

Added in v2.10.0

---

<h2 class="text-delta">Table of contents</h2>

- [type classes](#type-classes)
  - [FromEither (interface)](#fromeither-interface)
  - [FromEither2 (interface)](#fromeither2-interface)
  - [FromEither2C (interface)](#fromeither2c-interface)
  - [FromEither3 (interface)](#fromeither3-interface)
  - [FromEither3C (interface)](#fromeither3c-interface)
  - [FromEither4 (interface)](#fromeither4-interface)
- [utils](#utils)
  - [chainEitherK](#chaineitherk)
  - [chainOptionK](#chainoptionk)
  - [filterOrElse](#filterorelse)
  - [fromEitherK](#fromeitherk)
  - [fromOption](#fromoption)
  - [fromOptionK](#fromoptionk)
  - [fromPredicate](#frompredicate)

---

# type classes

## FromEither (interface)

**Signature**

```ts
export interface FromEither<F> {
  readonly URI: F
  readonly fromEither: <E, A>(e: Either<E, A>) => HKT2<F, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

## FromEither2 (interface)

**Signature**

```ts
export interface FromEither2<F extends URIS2> {
  readonly URI: F
  readonly fromEither: <E, A>(e: Either<E, A>) => Kind2<F, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

## FromEither2C (interface)

**Signature**

```ts
export interface FromEither2C<F extends URIS2, E> {
  readonly URI: F
  readonly _E: E
  readonly fromEither: <A>(e: Either<E, A>) => Kind2<F, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

## FromEither3 (interface)

**Signature**

```ts
export interface FromEither3<F extends URIS3> {
  readonly URI: F
  readonly fromEither: <R, E, A>(e: Either<E, A>) => Kind3<F, R, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

## FromEither3C (interface)

**Signature**

```ts
export interface FromEither3C<F extends URIS3, E> {
  readonly URI: F
  readonly _E: E
  readonly fromEither: <R, A>(e: Either<E, A>) => Kind3<F, R, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

## FromEither4 (interface)

**Signature**

```ts
export interface FromEither4<F extends URIS4> {
  readonly URI: F
  readonly fromEither: <S, R, E, A>(e: Either<E, A>) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

# utils

## chainEitherK

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function chainEitherK<M extends URIS4>(
  M: FromEither4<M> & Monad4<M>
): <E, A, B>(f: (a: A) => Either<E, B>) => <S, R>(ma: Kind4<M, S, R, E, A>) => Kind4<M, S, R, E, B>
export declare function chainEitherK<M extends URIS3>(
  M: FromEither3<M> & Monad3<M>
): <E, A, B>(f: (a: A) => Either<E, B>) => <R>(ma: Kind3<M, R, E, A>) => Kind3<M, R, E, B>
export declare function chainEitherK<M extends URIS3, E>(
  M: FromEither3C<M, E> & Monad3C<M, E>
): <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Either<E, B>) => <R>(ma: Kind3<M, R, E, A>) => Kind3<M, R, E, B>
export declare function chainEitherK<M extends URIS2>(
  M: FromEither2<M> & Monad2<M>
): <E, A, B>(f: (a: A) => Either<E, B>) => (ma: Kind2<M, E, A>) => Kind2<M, E, B>
export declare function chainEitherK<M extends URIS2, E>(
  M: FromEither2C<M, E> & Monad2C<M, E>
): <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Either<E, B>) => (ma: Kind2<M, E, A>) => Kind2<M, E, B>
export declare function chainEitherK<M>(
  M: FromEither<M> & Monad<M>
): <E, A, B>(f: (a: A) => Either<E, B>) => (ma: HKT2<M, E, A>) => HKT2<M, E, B>
```

Added in v2.10.0

## chainOptionK

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function chainOptionK<F extends URIS4>(
  F: FromEither4<F> & Monad4<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Option<B>) => <S, R>(ma: Kind4<F, S, R, E, A>) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, B>
export declare function chainOptionK<F extends URIS3>(
  F: FromEither3<F> & Monad3<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Option<B>) => <R>(ma: Kind3<F, R, E, A>) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
export declare function chainOptionK<F extends URIS3, E>(
  F: FromEither3C<F, E> & Monad3C<F, E>
): (onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Option<B>) => <R>(ma: Kind3<F, R, E, A>) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
export declare function chainOptionK<F extends URIS2>(
  F: FromEither2<F> & Monad2<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Option<B>) => (ma: Kind2<F, E, A>) => Kind2<F, E, B>
export declare function chainOptionK<F extends URIS2, E>(
  F: FromEither2C<F, E> & Monad2C<F, E>
): (onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Option<B>) => (ma: Kind2<F, E, A>) => Kind2<F, E, B>
export declare function chainOptionK<F>(
  F: FromEither<F> & Monad<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Option<B>) => (ma: HKT2<F, E, A>) => HKT2<F, E, B>
```

Added in v2.10.0

## filterOrElse

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function filterOrElse<M extends URIS4>(
  M: FromEither4<M> & Monad4<M>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <S, R>(
    ma: Kind4<M, S, R, E, A>
  ) => Kind4<M, S, R, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <S, R>(ma: Kind4<M, S, R, E, A>) => Kind4<M, S, R, E, A>
}
export declare function filterOrElse<M extends URIS3>(
  M: FromEither3<M> & Monad3<M>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(
    ma: Kind3<M, R, E, A>
  ) => Kind3<M, R, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(ma: Kind3<M, R, E, A>) => Kind3<M, R, E, A>
}
export declare function filterOrElse<M extends URIS3, E>(
  M: FromEither3C<M, E> & Monad3C<M, E>
): {
  <A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(ma: Kind3<M, R, E, A>) => Kind3<M, R, E, B>
  <A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(ma: Kind3<M, R, E, A>) => Kind3<M, R, E, A>
}
export declare function filterOrElse<M extends URIS2>(
  M: FromEither2<M> & Monad2<M>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (ma: Kind2<M, E, A>) => Kind2<M, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (ma: Kind2<M, E, A>) => Kind2<M, E, A>
}
export declare function filterOrElse<M extends URIS2, E>(
  M: FromEither2C<M, E> & Monad2C<M, E>
): {
  <A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (ma: Kind2<M, E, A>) => Kind2<M, E, B>
  <A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (ma: Kind2<M, E, A>) => Kind2<M, E, A>
}
export declare function filterOrElse<M extends URIS2>(
  M: FromEither<M> & Monad<M>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (ma: HKT2<M, E, A>) => HKT2<M, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (ma: HKT2<M, E, A>) => HKT2<M, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

## fromEitherK

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function fromEitherK<F extends URIS4>(
  F: FromEither4<F>
): <E, A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Either<E, B>) => <S, R>(...a: A) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, B>
export declare function fromEitherK<F extends URIS3>(
  F: FromEither3<F>
): <E, A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Either<E, B>) => <R>(...a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
export declare function fromEitherK<F extends URIS3, E>(
  F: FromEither3C<F, E>
): <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Either<E, B>) => <R>(...a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
export declare function fromEitherK<F extends URIS2>(
  F: FromEither2<F>
): <E, A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Either<E, B>) => (...a: A) => Kind2<F, E, B>
export declare function fromEitherK<F extends URIS2, E>(
  F: FromEither2C<F, E>
): <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Either<E, B>) => (...a: A) => Kind2<F, E, B>
export declare function fromEitherK<F>(
  F: FromEither<F>
): <E, A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Either<E, B>) => (...a: A) => HKT2<F, E, B>
```

Added in v2.10.0

## fromOption

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function fromOption<F extends URIS4>(
  F: FromEither4<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <S, R, A>(ma: Option<A>) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, A>
export declare function fromOption<F extends URIS3>(
  F: FromEither3<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <R, A>(ma: Option<A>) => Kind3<F, R, E, A>
export declare function fromOption<F extends URIS3, E>(
  F: FromEither3C<F, E>
): (onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, R>(ma: Option<A>) => Kind3<F, R, E, A>
export declare function fromOption<F extends URIS2>(
  F: FromEither2<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A>(ma: Option<A>) => Kind2<F, E, A>
export declare function fromOption<F extends URIS2, E>(
  F: FromEither2C<F, E>
): (onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A>(ma: Option<A>) => Kind2<F, E, A>
export declare function fromOption<F>(F: FromEither<F>): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A>(ma: Option<A>) => HKT2<F, E, A>
```

Added in v2.10.0

## fromOptionK

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function fromOptionK<F extends URIS4>(
  F: FromEither4<F>
): <E>(
  onNone: Lazy<E>
) => <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Option<B>) => <S, R>(...a: A) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, B>
export declare function fromOptionK<F extends URIS3>(
  F: FromEither3<F>
): <E>(
  onNone: Lazy<E>
) => <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Option<B>) => <R>(...a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
export declare function fromOptionK<F extends URIS3, E>(
  F: FromEither3C<F, E>
): (
  onNone: Lazy<E>
) => <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Option<B>) => <R>(...a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
export declare function fromOptionK<F extends URIS2>(
  F: FromEither2<F>
): <E>(
  onNone: Lazy<E>
) => <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Option<B>) => (...a: A) => Kind2<F, E, B>
export declare function fromOptionK<F extends URIS2, E>(
  F: FromEither2C<F, E>
): (onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Option<B>) => (...a: A) => Kind2<F, E, B>
export declare function fromOptionK<F>(
  F: FromEither<F>
): <E>(
  onNone: Lazy<E>
) => <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Option<B>) => (...a: A) => HKT2<F, E, B>
```

Added in v2.10.0

## fromPredicate

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function fromPredicate<F extends URIS4>(
  F: FromEither4<F>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <S, R>(a: A) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <S, R>(a: A) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, A>
}
export declare function fromPredicate<F extends URIS3>(
  F: FromEither3<F>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, A>
}
export declare function fromPredicate<F extends URIS3, E>(
  F: FromEither3C<F, E>
): {
  <A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
  <A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, A>
}
export declare function fromPredicate<F extends URIS2>(
  F: FromEither2<F>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (a: A) => Kind2<F, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (a: A) => Kind2<F, E, A>
}
export declare function fromPredicate<F extends URIS2, E>(
  F: FromEither2C<F, E>
): {
  <A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (a: A) => Kind2<F, E, B>
  <A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (a: A) => Kind2<F, E, A>
}
export declare function fromPredicate<F>(
  F: FromEither<F>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (a: A) => HKT2<F, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (a: A) => HKT2<F, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

Commit message:

use Chain instances when possible

docs/modules/FromEither.ts.md, after:

---
title: FromEither.ts
nav_order: 34
parent: Modules
---

## FromEither overview

The `FromEither` type class represents those data types which support errors.

Added in v2.10.0

---

<h2 class="text-delta">Table of contents</h2>

- [type classes](#type-classes)
  - [FromEither (interface)](#fromeither-interface)
  - [FromEither2 (interface)](#fromeither2-interface)
  - [FromEither2C (interface)](#fromeither2c-interface)
  - [FromEither3 (interface)](#fromeither3-interface)
  - [FromEither3C (interface)](#fromeither3c-interface)
  - [FromEither4 (interface)](#fromeither4-interface)
- [utils](#utils)
  - [chainEitherK](#chaineitherk)
  - [chainOptionK](#chainoptionk)
  - [filterOrElse](#filterorelse)
  - [fromEitherK](#fromeitherk)
  - [fromOption](#fromoption)
  - [fromOptionK](#fromoptionk)
  - [fromPredicate](#frompredicate)

---

# type classes

## FromEither (interface)

**Signature**

```ts
export interface FromEither<F> {
  readonly URI: F
  readonly fromEither: <E, A>(e: Either<E, A>) => HKT2<F, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

## FromEither2 (interface)

**Signature**

```ts
export interface FromEither2<F extends URIS2> {
  readonly URI: F
  readonly fromEither: <E, A>(e: Either<E, A>) => Kind2<F, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

## FromEither2C (interface)

**Signature**

```ts
export interface FromEither2C<F extends URIS2, E> {
  readonly URI: F
  readonly _E: E
  readonly fromEither: <A>(e: Either<E, A>) => Kind2<F, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

## FromEither3 (interface)

**Signature**

```ts
export interface FromEither3<F extends URIS3> {
  readonly URI: F
  readonly fromEither: <R, E, A>(e: Either<E, A>) => Kind3<F, R, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

## FromEither3C (interface)

**Signature**

```ts
export interface FromEither3C<F extends URIS3, E> {
  readonly URI: F
  readonly _E: E
  readonly fromEither: <R, A>(e: Either<E, A>) => Kind3<F, R, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

## FromEither4 (interface)

**Signature**

```ts
export interface FromEither4<F extends URIS4> {
  readonly URI: F
  readonly fromEither: <S, R, E, A>(e: Either<E, A>) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

# utils

## chainEitherK

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function chainEitherK<M extends URIS4>(
  M: FromEither4<M> & Chain4<M>
): <E, A, B>(f: (a: A) => Either<E, B>) => <S, R>(ma: Kind4<M, S, R, E, A>) => Kind4<M, S, R, E, B>
export declare function chainEitherK<M extends URIS3>(
  M: FromEither3<M> & Chain3<M>
): <E, A, B>(f: (a: A) => Either<E, B>) => <R>(ma: Kind3<M, R, E, A>) => Kind3<M, R, E, B>
export declare function chainEitherK<M extends URIS3, E>(
  M: FromEither3C<M, E> & Chain3C<M, E>
): <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Either<E, B>) => <R>(ma: Kind3<M, R, E, A>) => Kind3<M, R, E, B>
export declare function chainEitherK<M extends URIS2>(
  M: FromEither2<M> & Chain2<M>
): <E, A, B>(f: (a: A) => Either<E, B>) => (ma: Kind2<M, E, A>) => Kind2<M, E, B>
export declare function chainEitherK<M extends URIS2, E>(
  M: FromEither2C<M, E> & Chain2C<M, E>
): <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Either<E, B>) => (ma: Kind2<M, E, A>) => Kind2<M, E, B>
export declare function chainEitherK<M>(
  M: FromEither<M> & Chain<M>
): <E, A, B>(f: (a: A) => Either<E, B>) => (ma: HKT2<M, E, A>) => HKT2<M, E, B>
```

Added in v2.10.0

## chainOptionK

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function chainOptionK<F extends URIS4>(
  F: FromEither4<F> & Chain4<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Option<B>) => <S, R>(ma: Kind4<F, S, R, E, A>) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, B>
export declare function chainOptionK<F extends URIS3>(
  F: FromEither3<F> & Chain3<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Option<B>) => <R>(ma: Kind3<F, R, E, A>) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
export declare function chainOptionK<F extends URIS3, E>(
  F: FromEither3C<F, E> & Chain3C<F, E>
): (onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Option<B>) => <R>(ma: Kind3<F, R, E, A>) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
export declare function chainOptionK<F extends URIS2>(
  F: FromEither2<F> & Chain2<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Option<B>) => (ma: Kind2<F, E, A>) => Kind2<F, E, B>
export declare function chainOptionK<F extends URIS2, E>(
  F: FromEither2C<F, E> & Chain2C<F, E>
): (onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Option<B>) => (ma: Kind2<F, E, A>) => Kind2<F, E, B>
export declare function chainOptionK<F>(
  F: FromEither<F> & Chain<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, B>(f: (a: A) => Option<B>) => (ma: HKT2<F, E, A>) => HKT2<F, E, B>
```

Added in v2.10.0

## filterOrElse

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function filterOrElse<M extends URIS4>(
  M: FromEither4<M> & Chain4<M>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <S, R>(
    ma: Kind4<M, S, R, E, A>
  ) => Kind4<M, S, R, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <S, R>(ma: Kind4<M, S, R, E, A>) => Kind4<M, S, R, E, A>
}
export declare function filterOrElse<M extends URIS3>(
  M: FromEither3<M> & Chain3<M>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(
    ma: Kind3<M, R, E, A>
  ) => Kind3<M, R, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(ma: Kind3<M, R, E, A>) => Kind3<M, R, E, A>
}
export declare function filterOrElse<M extends URIS3, E>(
  M: FromEither3C<M, E> & Chain3C<M, E>
): {
  <A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(ma: Kind3<M, R, E, A>) => Kind3<M, R, E, B>
  <A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(ma: Kind3<M, R, E, A>) => Kind3<M, R, E, A>
}
export declare function filterOrElse<M extends URIS2>(
  M: FromEither2<M> & Chain2<M>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (ma: Kind2<M, E, A>) => Kind2<M, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (ma: Kind2<M, E, A>) => Kind2<M, E, A>
}
export declare function filterOrElse<M extends URIS2, E>(
  M: FromEither2C<M, E> & Chain2C<M, E>
): {
  <A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (ma: Kind2<M, E, A>) => Kind2<M, E, B>
  <A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (ma: Kind2<M, E, A>) => Kind2<M, E, A>
}
export declare function filterOrElse<M extends URIS2>(
  M: FromEither<M> & Chain<M>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (ma: HKT2<M, E, A>) => HKT2<M, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (ma: HKT2<M, E, A>) => HKT2<M, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0

## fromEitherK

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function fromEitherK<F extends URIS4>(
  F: FromEither4<F>
): <E, A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Either<E, B>) => <S, R>(...a: A) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, B>
export declare function fromEitherK<F extends URIS3>(
  F: FromEither3<F>
): <E, A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Either<E, B>) => <R>(...a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
export declare function fromEitherK<F extends URIS3, E>(
  F: FromEither3C<F, E>
): <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Either<E, B>) => <R>(...a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
export declare function fromEitherK<F extends URIS2>(
  F: FromEither2<F>
): <E, A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Either<E, B>) => (...a: A) => Kind2<F, E, B>
export declare function fromEitherK<F extends URIS2, E>(
  F: FromEither2C<F, E>
): <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Either<E, B>) => (...a: A) => Kind2<F, E, B>
export declare function fromEitherK<F>(
  F: FromEither<F>
): <E, A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Either<E, B>) => (...a: A) => HKT2<F, E, B>
```

Added in v2.10.0

## fromOption

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function fromOption<F extends URIS4>(
  F: FromEither4<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <S, R, A>(ma: Option<A>) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, A>
export declare function fromOption<F extends URIS3>(
  F: FromEither3<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <R, A>(ma: Option<A>) => Kind3<F, R, E, A>
export declare function fromOption<F extends URIS3, E>(
  F: FromEither3C<F, E>
): (onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A, R>(ma: Option<A>) => Kind3<F, R, E, A>
export declare function fromOption<F extends URIS2>(
  F: FromEither2<F>
): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A>(ma: Option<A>) => Kind2<F, E, A>
export declare function fromOption<F extends URIS2, E>(
  F: FromEither2C<F, E>
): (onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A>(ma: Option<A>) => Kind2<F, E, A>
export declare function fromOption<F>(F: FromEither<F>): <E>(onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A>(ma: Option<A>) => HKT2<F, E, A>
```

Added in v2.10.0

## fromOptionK

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function fromOptionK<F extends URIS4>(
  F: FromEither4<F>
): <E>(
  onNone: Lazy<E>
) => <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Option<B>) => <S, R>(...a: A) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, B>
export declare function fromOptionK<F extends URIS3>(
  F: FromEither3<F>
): <E>(
  onNone: Lazy<E>
) => <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Option<B>) => <R>(...a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
export declare function fromOptionK<F extends URIS3, E>(
  F: FromEither3C<F, E>
): (
  onNone: Lazy<E>
) => <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Option<B>) => <R>(...a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
export declare function fromOptionK<F extends URIS2>(
  F: FromEither2<F>
): <E>(
  onNone: Lazy<E>
) => <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Option<B>) => (...a: A) => Kind2<F, E, B>
export declare function fromOptionK<F extends URIS2, E>(
  F: FromEither2C<F, E>
): (onNone: Lazy<E>) => <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Option<B>) => (...a: A) => Kind2<F, E, B>
export declare function fromOptionK<F>(
  F: FromEither<F>
): <E>(
  onNone: Lazy<E>
) => <A extends ReadonlyArray<unknown>, B>(f: (...a: A) => Option<B>) => (...a: A) => HKT2<F, E, B>
```

Added in v2.10.0

## fromPredicate

**Signature**

```ts
export declare function fromPredicate<F extends URIS4>(
  F: FromEither4<F>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <S, R>(a: A) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <S, R>(a: A) => Kind4<F, S, R, E, A>
}
export declare function fromPredicate<F extends URIS3>(
  F: FromEither3<F>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, A>
}
export declare function fromPredicate<F extends URIS3, E>(
  F: FromEither3C<F, E>
): {
  <A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, B>
  <A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): <R>(a: A) => Kind3<F, R, E, A>
}
export declare function fromPredicate<F extends URIS2>(
  F: FromEither2<F>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (a: A) => Kind2<F, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (a: A) => Kind2<F, E, A>
}
export declare function fromPredicate<F extends URIS2, E>(
  F: FromEither2C<F, E>
): {
  <A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (a: A) => Kind2<F, E, B>
  <A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (a: A) => Kind2<F, E, A>
}
export declare function fromPredicate<F>(
  F: FromEither<F>
): {
  <E, A, B extends A>(refinement: Refinement<A, B>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (a: A) => HKT2<F, E, B>
  <E, A>(predicate: Predicate<A>, onFalse: (a: A) => E): (a: A) => HKT2<F, E, A>
}
```

Added in v2.10.0
